so we have to assign out binary
functions for these though they are
variables okay so I will be assuming
some conditions for these output
variables so that our robot for for
going straight left and right are for
the robot okay so let's say three okay
so they are m1 m1 one motor this is the
second motor okay so what if I give
something like 1 0 0 so I will take it
as forward that is in the hardware I
will be connected it like this it so
that if this value is given to the
motors the robot will go forward and if
one zero one zero is given it will go to
the right and if 0 1 0 1 is given it
will go to the left will see that in
detail or here itself so checking this
condition ok so this condition comes
when let's say this is the line and this
is the robot and this is your s 1 s 2 s
3 right s 1 s 2 s 3 right so when does
this 0 0 0 coming when all the three
sensors are not in the line right so
when all the three sensors are not in
the line so I will tell the bot the
robot go search for the line so you just
give one normal condition or for towing
so that the robot will be turning and
searching for the line so I just ran
quite rapidly give it as right condition
ok so I will take one is 0 1 0 is right
that is robot will be flowing right okay
so let's say the and so now coming to
the next condition 0 0 1 so this is the
condition where we have a line to the
right side that is s 3 is on the black
black on white s 3 is giving the sensor
S 3 is giving the serve value of 1 which
is truth value which means that s 3
sensor has sensed the black line okay so
so the line is like something like the
snow only thawed so that s the sensor
on the line so what should we do now
the robot should take a right turn right
so again keeping her right down to the
motors what is zero what is he okay no
give me coming to the third condition
one zero ones or a condition because the
line is in the center part of the robot
so that robot should go straight in a
straight manner right so for the street
condition I have assumed this this
binary value that is one zero one zero
one okay so this is for forward now
coming to the fourth one zero one month
so here we can see that s2 and s3 both
are in black tank
all right condition again so I'll just
give a right condition again this is one
zero one zero right and now I'm coming
to the fifth one this is one zero zero
right so which means that the sensor s1
is on black line so the robot should
actually take a left turn right as you
can see here so I will be writing the
left condition for the motor outputs
here then of condition is I have assumed
this has zero one zero one
this is okay and now coming to the over
sixty this is 1 0 1 so it's like this
condition is ready ready to come in a
line follower robot program but I am
gonna just don't give you one no idea
that we don't have a line in center but
we have two lines or either of the sides
so I just I could really choose to go to
right even if we have to you know turns
okay so what I do is I just be wearing
one
so if you have to you know there are
branches so for single just go right and
then this is one one zero
okay one one zero it's like we have s1
and s2 on the black line so the robot
has to go that so again the left
position is 0 1 0 1 we have 1 1 1 so
this means that all the or three sensors
are on the black line so I will choose
to go straight okay you can choose it to
be to go to left or right or that
depends on the conditions you are about
to this is not the kind of line track
that we will be cutting okay so I just
make it go straight for the zero zero
one forward okay so there you go you
have successfully you know learned how
to write output binary you know values
for a set of input variables okay so
this is how you're gonna design your
robot using the logical you know
operands and the method of logics of
answers so that you will be able to
implement it in your logical gates as in
hard as as a hardware part okay so let's
now rub this off and continue with the
next part I will show you how to
implement this and this and how to get
the inputs from these sensors it's a try
and how to actually implement it in
conjugates as in hardware or in the next
part of it so I'll see you then